---
layout: post
title:      "Why I decided to become a Software Engineer."
date:       2019-12-21 20:48:06 +0000
permalink:  why_i_decided_to_become_a_software_engineer
---


     The question of why I decided to become a Software Engineer will someday be asked by my son, so I had to think long and hard on this subject.  While I was going to school to become a chemist at Arizona State University it became clear to me that, that was not what I wanted to spend a lifetime doing. If not for the simple reason that it is not something that I could take home and describe "How my day went", unless you are well versed in the periodic table and how elements interact, it just would not be that interesting to a lay person.  I did not graduate from Arizona State University nor my next endeavor Essex County College where I went to study Civil Engineering, and it was not due to lack of effort.  Sometimes life just has an interesting way of demanding your attention be put toward other responsibilities.  It was at this time my wife at the time gave birth to my son.  I did have what some would describe as a good job, but to me it seemed like a pigeon hole.  I wouldn't describe that particular job as dead end, but it certainly was not a place where I could see myself being happy for twenty plus years and I was there for the better part of a decade, what can I say, the money was decent and the job was not stressful or hard.  

     So to the purpose of this blog post, I decided to become a Software Engineer out of a curiousity for how things work as it relates to the internet and a need to be creative.  I enjoy using my hands to fix and build things, and I also puting the artistic side of my brain to work.  I've always been computer literate and I wanted to explore what puting together a functional website with "moving parts" was like.  Not the kind of website you'd build with Wix or Wordpress, but the kind you'd build from the ground up without a template.  I also wanted a career that I could be proud of, one that I could put my fingerprint on and say "I did that" or "I contributed to that".  Right now the internet is still in its infancy and there is much yet still to be done with it, on it, and by it.  With Software Engineering I can show\tell my son what I do and still feel like a superhero to him, and quite franky to the majority of people from non-technical backgrounds as well.  It's a field where one can still make an impact on the fabric that makes up the internet, lets face it don't we all want to be remembered for something bigger than us.  This is the promise of Software Engineering, you can design anything, make a useful impact, crate, and be innovative.  Sure ,everyone thinks they are making an impact in their respective fields, but if your not innovating with your creation\s, you're not leading the industry.  This is where being a Software Engineer and being a "_________" fill in the blank differ.  Aside for being a pretty good career that pays well, you can take it anywhere, there is a constant need, it's a field where the recruits are not a dime a dozen , and there isn't a stigma associated with what you do like some other professions.  The stigma associated with Software Engineers is that you're a problem solver, and probably smart too.
		 
		 In a nutshell I chose to become a software engineer because I like putting my brain to use, I like creating, and I like the idea that the internet is mystical.  Being a Software Engineer these days is akin to being a wizard, and who doesn't want to turn non-precious material into gold, figuratively and literally.  That's what the power of a good devolper is, someone that can transform your business from lackluster to dazling, all with the stroke of a key.
